YouTube does not know your password.
Not Facebook, Twitter or any decent website.
Your password is not really stored in their database.
It's so safer.
A hacker or a rogue employee does not know your password.
But how can they know you have entered the correct password?
There are mathematical operations that are very easy in one direction,
but in the opposite direction very difficult.
Multiplication of two prime numbers is easy.
17 times 11 is 187.
You can simply 17 multiply by 10 and add that number again.
Because they are prime numbers,
they are the only two numbers you multiply to 187.
Let's try to ask the opposite.
Multiplying the two prime numbers
does a double prime number arise, say 299?
It can not be two times because it does not end with an even number.
It can not be three times something because the sum of digits is not divisible by three.
It can not be five times something because it does not end with five or zero.
Can it be seven?
I do not know, I have to go for it in the long run.
It can be a lot of numbers.
There are a few tricks that computers or good mathematicians can use,
to speed it up,
but generally for large numbers
there is no effective way of reversing the calculation.
It is a math that makes it easy in one direction, but not the opposite.
For you, the password is a string of letters, symbols, or numbers.
But for the computer it's the same as everything else.
Binary string. One and a Zero.
With these numbers and zeros, the computer can work.
Not always prime numbers, though sometimes they do.
This process is called hash.
Functions called salt </ i> are also used, but this is more complex.
However,
when registering, write your password, such as abc,
it goes through processing and you get a random string of characters.
They keep it in the database.
When you re-enter your password when logging in,
it goes through the same one-way mathematical operation again.
If the resulting hash matches that in the database,
they know that you have entered the correct password,
although they do not know exactly what you have entered.
If they are properly treated,
you can not convert hash back to password,
if you do not have centuries of computing time or billions of dollars available.
This is why Google, Facebook, Yahoo and other sites
missed forgotten password by email.
They ask you for a new one.
They can not send you because they do not know him.
When you find a page that sends you a forgotten password by email,
run away,
because of the cough for safety.
If you are interested,
on Computerphile, I shot some longer shouting and security videos.
And if not ...
The stunning piece will be shown here by trained drivers.
Do not try it at home!
Translation: Mithril www.videacesky.cz